# CS-340
Client/Server Development


###How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?###

I focus on reusability and simplification of the code itself, with plenty of comments to guide me and other developers that may use my code. When developing the CRUD module for this project, I listed off to the side the main components that needed to work and what was expected of them. Once I had my plan down, I took the variables necessary and coded them to allow for Create, Read, Update, and Delete functions so that data could be properly displayed when the user is searching for specific criteria. The advantages of working this way includes having an organized work-flow to follow. It is very easy to get stuck in a coding vortex when building applications, however if a developer writes out their needs and follows their guide, they can produce great work that aligns with what the client needs - within a timeframe provided. CRUD modules apply to various applications today, so this module could be used for future projects or career needs with simple variable changes. This includes (but is not limited to) health care databases, HR logs, financial record maintenance and more.

###How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

When it comes to addressing problems, it's important to define the issue and understand what is wrong. This way, the problem can be broken down into manageable steps to be solved. Every detail matters. In this project, I had to face the problem of creating a client-sided secure login page that changed the password to dots as the client typed. I have never faced this before. After researching and studying, I broke the problem down to find that I had misplaced the instantiation of the class object. Once I moved it to the correct line, it worked properly. In the future, I would compile a working document to follow that includes the client's needs in a list fashion so that I can keep my work on track and organized to deliver in a timely manner.

###What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Computer Scientists develop software and hardware to provide solutions for everyday people, businesses, governments, and more. This is incredibly important, especially due to the Age of Information. Everything we do daily involves software/hardware whether it be checking social media, driving, changing the TV channel, or even keeping our homes secure. It's highly important to keep software bug-free and updated to keep information flowing and providing users with the most up-to-date information possible. It is part of the human experience now.
